( main theme playing )
( woman vocalizing )
Check the circuit.
All operating, sir.
the screen then.
It can't be
Definitely something
out there, captain.
Headed this way.
Could be these meteroids.
TYLER:
No. It's something else.
ONE:
There's still
something out there.
( alarm beeping )
It's coming
at the speed of light.
Collision course.
The meteorite beam has not
deflected it, captain.
Evasive maneuvers, sir?
Steady as we go.
( alarm stops )
It's a radio wave, sir.
an old-style distress signal.
We're passing through
They were keyed
to cause interference
and attract attention
this way.
A ship in trouble making
a forced landing, sir.
No other message.
That's it.
GARISON:
I have a fix. It comes from
the Talos star group.
Earth colonies that far out.
We've no ships or
with a survey expedition--
Their call letters check
S.S. Columbia.
Disappeared in that region
approximately 18 years ago.
It would take that long
for a radio beam
to travel from there to here.
Records show the Talos group
has never been explored.
Solar system similar to Earth.
Eleven planets.
Number four seems
to be Class M--
oxygen atmosphere.
And they could still be alive,
even after 18 years.
If they survived the crash.
We aren't going to go
to be certain?
Not without any indication
of survivors, no.
We'll continue on
to the Vega Colony
and take care of our own sick
and injured first.
You have the helm.
Maintain present course.
Yes, sir.
ONE:
( beeps )
BOYCE ( over comms ):
Boyce here.
Drop by my cabin, doctor.
PIKE:
( knock on door )
What's that?
anything wrong with me.
I didn't say there was
I understand we picked up
a distress signal.
Unless we get anything
That's right.
it seems to me the condition
more positive on it,
of our own crew
takes precedent.
I'd like to log the ship's
doctor's opinion, too.
Oh, I concur with yours,
definitely.
Good. I'm glad you do.
'Cause we're going to stop
first at the Vega Colony
who needs hospitalization
and replace anybody
( ice clinks )
and also--
What the devil are you
putting in there? Ice?
a warm martini?
Who wants
What makes you think
I need one?
Sometimes a man will
tell his bartender
things he'll never
tell his doctor.
on your mind, Chris?
What's been
on Rigel VII?
The fight
Shouldn't it be?
two others dead, seven injured.
My only yeoman and
Was there anything
you personally
could've done
to prevent it?
smelled trouble when I saw
Oh, I should have
the swords and the armor.
Instead of that,
I let myself get trapped
in that deserted fortress
and attacked by one
of their warriors.
standards for yourself
Oh, Chris you set
you treat everyone on board
no one could meet.
like a human being
except yourself.
And now, you're tired,
and you--
You bet I'm tired.
You bet.
responsible for 203 lives.
I'm tired of being
which mission is too risky
I'm tired of deciding
and which isn't,
and who's going
on the landing party
and who doesn't,
and who lives...
and who dies.
Boy, I've had it, Phil.
To the point of finally
taking my advice,
a rest leave?
of considering resigning.
To the point
And do what?
Well, for one thing,
go home.
Nice little town
of parkland around it.
with 50 miles
Remember I told you
I had two horses?
Used to take some food
and ride out all day.
Ah, that sounds exciting.
a picnic lunch every day.
Ride out with
I said that's one place
I might go.
business on Regulus
Or I'd go into
or on the Orion colony.
You, an Orion trader,
dealing in green animal
women, slaves?
The point is that this
isn't the only life available.
of things to choose from.
There's a whole galaxy
Not for you.
A man either lives life
as it happens to him,
and licks it, or he...
meets it head-on
turns his back on it
to wither away.
and starts
Now you're beginning to talk
like a doctor, bartender.
Take your choice.
two kinds of customers--
We both get the same
and the dying.
the living
( intercom whistles )
Mr. Spock here.
a follow-up message, sir.
We're intercepting
There are crash survivors
on Talos.
"Eleven survivors from crash.
GARISON:
"Gravity and oxygen
within limits.
"Food and water
obtainable.
But unless--"
The message faded
at that point, sir.
Address intercraft.
System open.
This is the captain.
is the Talos star group.
Our destination
Our time warp--
factor seven.
Course computed
and on the screen.
acknowledged, sir.
All decks have
Engage.
( dramatic theme playing )
( woman vocalizing )
On course, sir.
Yes, sir.
Yeoman.
I thought I told you that
when I'm on the bridge--
the reports by 0500.
But you wanted
It's 0500 now, sir.
Oh. I see.
Thank you.
your former yeoman, sir.
She's replacing
She does a good job,
all right.
I can't get used
It's just that
a woman on the bridge.
to having
No offense,
lieutenant.
You're different,
of course.
( mysterious theme playing )
into orbit, sir.
We've settled
TYLER:
Geological lab report
complete, captain.
survey ready, sir.
Preliminary lab
Our reading shows
Spectrography?
an oxygen nitrogen
atmosphere, sir,
heavy with inert elements,
but well within safety limits.
Zero point nine of Earth.
Gravity?
Captain?
Reflections, sir,
from the plane's surface.
As I read it,
they polarize out
as rounded metal bits.
of a spaceship hull.
Could be parts
Prep a landing party of six.
PIKE:
Yes, sir.
You feel up to it?
Sorry, Number One.
With little information on
this planet,
to leave the ship's
we'll have
officer here covering us.
most experienced
Of course, sir.
( ship humming )
There's no indication of
problems down there,
take any chances.
but let's not
Yes, sir. There's a canyon
to the left.
We can set you down there
completely unobserved.
All right.
( beeping )
( transporter chiming )
( chiming stops )
( indistinct humming )
( plant humming )
( humming stops )
( humming resumes )
( plant humming )
Sir.
( mysterious theme playing )
They're men.
They're humans.
United Spaceship Enterprise.
Captain Christopher Pike,
PIKE:
Dr. Theodore Haskins.
American Continent
Institute.
Is Earth all right?
The same old Earth,
and you'll see it very soon.
how fast you can get back.
And you won't believe
The time barrier's
been broken.
Our new ships can--
( mysterious theme playing )
This is Vina.
Her parents are dead.
almost as we crashed.
She was born
( indistinct chattering )
( communicator beeps )
Enterprise.
Landing party, come in.
ONE ( over comms ):
We'll begin transporting
the survivors
and their effects
up to you very shortly.
being prepared, sir.
Quarters are
Have I permission to send out
and scientific parties now?
scouting
That's affirmative on--
You appear to be healthy
and intelligent, captain.
A prime specimen.
that last message, captain.
I didn't get
ONE:
Uh, affirmative
on request.
Landing party out.
her choice of words, captain.
You must forgive
She's lived her whole life
of aging scientists.
with a collection
If they can spare you
a moment,
my medical report.
I'd like to make
to show the captain our secret.
I think it's time
Their health is excellent,
almost too good.
for our condition,
There's a reason
but we've had some doubt
if Earth is ready
to learn the secret.
Let the girl show you.
We'll accept your judgment.
( mysterious theme playing )
but don't worry.
You're tired,
much better soon.
You'll feel
Don't you see it?
Here and here.
I don't understand.
You will.
You're a perfect choice.
( ominous theme playing )
( zaps )
Captain!
( communicator beeps )
Spock here.
Landing party, come in.
ONE ( over comms ):
encampment, Number One.
There is no survivors'
some sort of trap.
This is all
We've lost the captain.
Do you read?
( water dripping steadily )
( suspenseful theme playing )
( knocks )
( pants )
( wall vibrates )
( indistinct snarling )
( growls )
Can you hear me?
Christopher Pike,
My name is
commander of the space
vehicle Enterprise
from a stellar group at the
other end of this galaxy.
Our intentions are peaceful.
Can you understand me?
It appears, magistrate,
TALOSIAN:
that the intelligence
of the specimen
is shockingly limited.
This is no surprise,
MAGISTRATE:
was baited here so easily
since his vessel
with a simulated message.
in its thoughts,
As you can read
beginning to suspect
it is only now
that the survivors
and encampment
we placed in their minds.
were a simple illusion
You're not speaking,
yet I can hear you.
You will note the confusion
MAGISTRATE:
our thought transmissions.
as it reads
All right, then.
Telepathy.
You can read my mind.
I can read yours.
Now, unless you want my ship
to consider capturing me
an unfriendly act--
You now see the primitive
fear threat reaction.
MAGISTRATE:
The specimen is about to boast
of his strength,
the weaponry of his vessel,
and so on.
Next...
to display physical prowess,
frustrated into a need
will throw himself
the creature
against the transparency.
( wall vibrating )
If you were in here,
( sighs ):
wouldn't you test the strength
of these walls, too?
There's a way out of any cage,
and I'll find it.
Despite its frustration,
MAGISTRATE:
appears more adaptable
the creature
than our specimens
from other planets.
We can soon begin the
experiment.
( ominous theme playing )
The inhabitants
of this planet
SPOCK:
must live deep underground.
Probably manufacture food
and other needs down there.
Now, our tests indicate
the planet's surface,
more vegetation or some animals,
without considerably
is simply too barren
to support life.
So we just thought
there, Mr. Spock.
we saw survivors
Exactly. An illusion,
placed in our minds by
this planet's inhabitants.
It was a perfect illusion.
just what we wanted to see,
They had us seeing
human beings who'd survived
with dignity and bravery,
entirely logical
and everything
right down to the building
of the camp,
the tattered clothing,
everything.
( sighs )
Now, let's be sure we understand
the danger of this.
The inhabitants of this planet
can read our minds.
They can create illusions
out of a person's
own thoughts, memories,
and experiences,
a person's own desires.
even out of
and solid as this table top,
Illusions just as real
and just as impossible
to ignore.
Any estimate what they might
want one of us for?
studying the captain
They may simply be
to find how Earth people
are put together.
something more.
Or it could be
Then why aren't we
doing anything?
TYLER:
Now, that entry may have stood
up against hand lasers,
the ship's power against it--
but we can transfer
half a continent.
enough to blast
Look.
Brains three times
the size of ours.
If we start buzzing about
down there,
their mental power is so great,
we're liable to find
they could reach out
and swat this ship
as though it were a fly.
It's Captain Pike
they've got.
and he probably needs it fast.
He needs help,
Engineering deck will rig
to transmit ship's power.
through that metal.
We'll try blasting
( melancholy theme playing )
are already probing
Thousands of us
TALOSIAN:
the creature's thoughts,
magistrate.
We find excellent
memory capacity.
a recent death struggle
I read most strongly
MAGISTRATE:
to protect its life.
in which it fought
We will begin with this,
giving the specimen something
more interesting to protect.
( dramatic theme playing )
We must hide ourselves.
Come on!
VINA:
Come, come.
Hurry!
It's deserted.
There'll be weapons
and perhaps food.
This is Rigel VII.
Please! We must
hide ourselves.
I was in a cage,
a cell in some kind of a zoo.
I must still be there.
Come on!
They've reached into my mind,
and taken the memory of
somewhere I've been.
( roars )
The killer!
( gasps )
It's starting
happened two weeks ago--
just as it
( roars )
Except for you.
Longer hair, different dress,
but it is you.
The one the survivors
called Vina.
( roars )
the image of Vina.
Or rather,
But why you again?
Why didn't they create
a different girl?
( roaring )
while it's not looking...
Quick! If you attack
But it's only a dream.
( roars )
You have to kill him,
as you did here before.
I won't go along with it.
You can tell my jailers
performing for its supper.
I'm not an animal
what you call this.
It doesn't matter
that's what matters--
You'll feel it--
you'll feel every moment
of whatever happens to you.
( clanging )
( roaring )
Please!
what he'll do to us?
Don't you know
( growls )
( dramatic theme swells )
Why would an illusion
be frightened?
Because that's the way
you imagined me.
Who are you?
this were real to you, too.
You act as if
Careful!
( growls )
( screams )
( Vina gasps )
( roaring )
( screaming )
( growls )
( grunts )
( gasps )
It's over.
Why are you here?
To please you.
Are you real?
As real as you wish.
Oh, no.
No, that's not any answer.
I've never met you before,
never even imagined you.
Perhaps they made me
you've forgotten.
out of dreams
the same metal fabric they wear?
And dressed you in
to wear something.
Well I have
Don't I?
whatever you wish,
Or I can wear
or be anything you wish.
So they can see how their
specimen performs?
They want to see how I react.
Is that it?
Don't you have a dream,
something you've always
wanted very badly?
Or do they do more
than just watch me?
Do they...
feel with me, too?
whatever dream you want.
You can have
I can become anything,
you've ever imagined.
any woman
anything you want
You can have
in the whole universe.
Let me...
please you.
you can please me.
Yes, yes,
If you can tell me
about them.
Is there any way
I can keep them
from probing my mind,
from using my thoughts
against me?
Does that frighten you?
Does that mean
there is a way?
You're a fool!
Since you're not real,
there's not much point
in continuing this
conversation, is there?
( mysterious theme playing )
All circuits engaged,
Mr. Spock.
Standing by, Number One.
SPOCK ( over comms ):
( cannon humming )
Take cover.
Ten... Nine...
SPOCK:
Eight...
Seven...
Six...
Five...
Four...
Three...
Two...
One.
Increase to full power.
Can you give us anymore?
are beginning to heat.
Our circuits
SPOCK:
We'll have to cease power.
Disengage.
( cannon powering down )
The top of that knoll
should have been sheared off
the first second.
Maybe it was.
It's what I tried to explain
in the briefing room.
of illusion is so great,
Their power
of anything we do...
we can't be sure
or anything we see.
Perhaps if you asked me
I could answer.
some questions
How far can they
control my mind?
If I tell you,
some dream you've had
then will you pick
live it with you?
and let me
Perhaps.
They can't actually
make you do
anything you don't want to--
But they try to trick me with
their illusions.
when you're not cooperative.
And they can punish you
You'll find out about that.
on the surface of this planet?
Did they ever live
Why did they go underground?
thousands of centuries ago.
War,
it's so barren up there?
That's why
The planet's only now becoming
able to support life again.
who came underground
So the Talosians
found life limited here
and they concentrated
on developing
their mental power.
But they found
it's a trap,
like a narcotic.
Because when dreams
become more important
than reality,
you give up travel,
building, creating.
to repair the machines
You even forget how
left behind by your ancestors.
and reliving other lives
You just sit, living
in the thought record.
left behind
of zoo specimens like me.
Or sit probing the minds
than the theater to them.
You're better
They create an illusion
for you.
They watch you react,
feel your emotions.
They have a whole collection
of specimens,
brought back long ago
descendants of life
this part of the galaxy.
from all over
Which means they had to have
of each animal.
more than one
Please.
They'll need a pair
of humans too.
Where do they intend to get
the Earth woman?
You said if I answered
your questions--
VINA:
But that was a bargain
PIKE:
that didn't exist.
with something
You said you weren't real,
remember?
I'm a woman,
as real and as human
as you are.
We're like Adam and Eve.
If we--
( gasps )
Don't, please!
Don't punish me!
( yells ):
( screaming )
( mysterious theme playing )
The vial contains
a nourishing protein complex.
actually communicating
Is the keeper
with one of his animals?
If the form and the color
is not appealing,
it can appear as any food you
wish to visualize.
And if I prefer--
To starve?
You overlook the unpleasant
alternative
of punishment.
( groaning )
( screaming )
( dramatic theme swelling )
From a fable you once heard
in childhood.
MAGISTRATE:
You will now consume
the nourishment.
Why not just put irresistible
hunger in my mind?
'Cause you can't,
can you?
You do have limitations,
don't you?
If you continue to disobey,
from deeper in your mind,
even more unpleasant.
there are things
( wall vibrates )
That's very interesting.
Now to the female.
You were startled.
reading my mind then?
Weren't you
As you've conjectured,
did crash on our planet,
an Earth vessel
a single survivor.
but with only
on the first subject.
No, let's stay
for that moment was
All I wanted
around your neck.
to get my hands
the survivor's injuries
We repaired
and found the species
interesting.
Do primitive thoughts put up a
block you can't read through?
It became necessary
to attract a mate.
All right, all right,
let's talk about the girl.
You seem to be going out of
your way to make her attractive,
to make me feel protective.
This is necessary
in order to perpetuate
the species.
more important to you now
It seems
that I begin to accept her
and like her.
We wish our specimens
to be happy
in their new life.
Assuming that's a lie,
why would you want me
attracted to her?
husband-wife relationship?
So I'll feel love in a
That would be necessary
only if you intend
to build a family group
or perhaps a whole
human community.
properly conditioned.
With the female now
You mean properly punished!
I'm the one who's not
cooperating.
Why don't you punish me?
First, an emotion
of protectiveness,
now one of sympathy.
Excellent.
You want some coffee, dear?
VINA:
( birds chirping )
( peaceful theme playing )
I left the thermos
hooked to my saddle.
( whinnies )
Tango!
You old devil, you.
Sorry I don't have
any su--
Well, they think of everything,
don't they?
Hey! The coffee.
VINA:
Is it good to be home?
They read our minds very well.
Home, anything else I want
if I cooperate.
Is that it?
my headaches, darling?
Have you forgotten
I get them when you talk
strangely like this.
Look, I'm sorry
they punish you
but we can't let them--
My, it turned out
to be a lovely day,
didn't it?
It's funny.
Just about 24 hours ago,
the ship's doctor
I was telling
how much I wanted something
from what we have here.
not very different
An escape from reality,
a life with no frustrations,
no responsibilities.
Now that I have it,
the doctor's answer.
I understand
I hope you're hungry.
These little white sandwiches
are your mother's recipe
for chicken tuna.
'Cause you either
live life,
skinned knees, and all,
bruises,
or you turn your back on it
and start dying.
happy about one part, at least--
The doctor's going to be
I needed a rest.
He said
a lovely place to rest.
Well, this is
Yeah, I used to ride through
here when I was a kid.
It's not as pretty as
some of the parkland
around the big cities, but...
That's where I was born.
That's Mojave.
That's supposed to be
news to your wife?
You can even stay if you want.
You're home.
Wouldn't it be nice
showing your children
where you once played?
These headaches, they'll be
hereditary you know.
Would you wish them on a child
or a whole group of children?
It's foolish.
Is it?
Look...
first, they made me
protect you
sympathy for you.
and then feel
And now, we have these
familiar surroundings
husband-wife relationship.
and a comfortable
all this for just passion.
Well, they don't need
What they're after is respect
and mutual dependence.
They say in the olden days,
all this was a desert,
just blowing sand and cactus.
But we're not here,
neither of us!
We're in a menagerie, a cage.
No!
either one of us
I can't help
give me a chance.
if you won't
You told me once
they used illusions
as a narcotic.
repair the machines
They couldn't even
left by their ancestors.
Is that why they want us,
to build a colony of slaves?
Stop it!
what they'll do to us?
Don't you care
Back in my cage,
it seemed for a couple of
minutes
couldn't read my thoughts.
that our keeper
Do emotions like hate--
in your mind--
keeping hate
does that block off
our mind from them?
Yes.
They can't read through
primitive emotions.
keep it up for long enough.
But you can't
I've tried.
They keep at you and at you,
year after year,
tricking and punishing.
And they won.
They own me.
( melancholy theme playing )
hate me for that.
I know you must
I don't hate you.
Oh, no,
what it was like.
I can guess
But that's not enough.
Don't you see?
They read my thoughts,
my feelings,
my dreams of what would be
a perfect man.
they picked you.
And that's why
but love you,
I can't help
to feel the same way.
and they expect you
If they can read
my mind,
I'm attracted to you.
then they know
the very first moment
I was from
the survivor's camp.
I saw you in
A curious species.
TALOSIAN:
They have fantasies they hide
even from themselves.
I'm beginning to see why
has worked for you.
none of this
and fighting, as on Rigel.
You've been home
That's not new
to you either.
A person's strongest dreams
are about what he can't do.
A ship's captain--
Yes.
to be so formal,
always having
so decent and honest
and proper.
what it would be like
You must wonder
to forget all that.
( foreign music playing )
Nice place you have
here, Mr. Pike.
Vina?
Glistening green.
ORION:
a bored ship captain might have.
Almost like secret dreams
Funny how they are
on this planet--
They actually like being
taken advantage of.
of space to choose from
Suppose you had all
and this was only
one small sample?
it was worth a man's soul?
Wouldn't you say
( music stops )
( mysterious theme playing )
Now, we've located
a magnetic field.
their underground generator.
Seems to come from
But could that be
an illusion, too?
Better you all know
the situation.
We're hoping to transport
the Talosian community.
down inside
If our measurements
and readings
are an illusion also,
materialized inside solid rock.
one could find oneself
Nothing will be said
wants to back out.
if any volunteer
( transporter beeps )
( transporter humming )
The women!
( mysterious theme playing )
Captain!
Captain?
No! Let me finish!
But we were a party of six.
We were the only ones
transported.
You don't need them.
It's not fair.
They don't work.
They were fully charged
when we left.
I can't make a signal.
It's dead.
What is it?
Don't-- don't say anything.
I'm filling my mind
with a picture
misshapen heads to pulp!
of beating their huge,
they black out everything else.
Thoughts so primitive,
I'm filling my mind
with hate!
block your thoughts--
How long can you
A few minutes, an hour?
How can that help?
Leave him alone.
He doesn't need you.
He's already picked me.
Picked her?
For what?
I don't understand.
Now, there's a fine choice
for intelligent offspring.
As in children?
Offspring?
Offspring as in he's Adam.
Is that it?
You're no better choice.
crossing him with a computer.
They'd have more luck
a little time computation?
Well, shall we do
listed on that expedition
There was a Vina
as an adult crewman.
Now, adding 18 years
to your age then--
( no audio )
( chimes )
It's not fair!
I did what you asked!
the present specimen,
Since you resist
MAGISTRATE:
you now have a selection.
of this zoo somehow
I'll break out
and get to you.
Is your blood red like ours?
I'm going to find out.
Each of the two new specimens
has qualities in her favor.
The female you call
Number One
has the superior mind
and would produce highly
intelligent children.
Although she seems
to lack emotion,
this is largely a pretense.
She often has fantasies
involving you.
is get my hands on you.
All I want to do
these thoughts--
Can you read
images of hate, killing?
The other new arrival
has considered you
unreachable,
but now is realizing
this has changed.
The factors in her favor
are youth and strength
plus unusually strong
female drives.
You'll find my thoughts
more interesting,
thoughts so primitive,
you can't understand,
emotions so ugly--
Ugh!
( dramatic theme playing )
Wrong thinking
is punishable.
MAGISTRATE:
will be as quickly rewarded.
Right thinking
an effective combination.
You will find it
( gasping )
No.
Captain.
No. Don't help me.
I have to concentrate.
They can't read
through hate.
Address intercraft.
Open, sir.
This is the acting captain
speaking.
We have no choice now
the safety of this vessel
but to consider
and the remainder of the crew.
We're leaving.
All decks prepare
for hyperdrive.
SPOCK:
Time warp factor--
Mr. Spock, the ship's controls
have gone dead!
Engine room!
GARISON:
Open.
rockets we're blasting out.
Mr. Spock here. Switch to
All systems are out, bridge.
PITCAIRN ( over comms ):
We've got nothing.
There's nothing.
Every system aboard
is fading out!
( mysterious theme playing )
( dramatic theme playing )
( both grunting )
Now, you hold still,
or I'll break your--
They don't mean to be evil.
Don't hurt him!
I've had some samples
of how good they are.
( roars )
You stop this illusion,
or I'll twist
your head off!
All right.
You try one more illusion,
you try anything at all,
and I'll break your neck.
Your ship.
Release me,
or we'll destroy it.
( clattering )
Nothing.
SPOCK:
If not for the batteries,
we'd lose gravitation, oxygen.
( alarm sounds )
The computers!
TYLER:
I can't shut it off!
through our library--
It's running
Tapes, microrecords,
everything.
It doesn't make sense!
we've waited too long.
Could be
information stored in this fly.
It's collecting all the
They've decided to swat us.
He's not bluffing,
captain.
With illusion they can make your
crew work the wrong controls
or push any button
it takes to destroy your ship.
you're too intelligent
I'm going to gamble
to kill for no reason
at all.
On the other hand,
I've got a reason.
you've created an illusion
I'm willing to bet
this laser is empty.
blasted a hole in that window,
I think it just
and you're keeping
us from seeing it.
You want me to test my theory
out on your head?
Captain!
( ominous theme playing )
Make contact, Number One.
from seeing this too.
They kept us
and never knew it.
We cut through
Captain!
As you see,
your attempt to escape
accomplished nothing.
I want to contact
our ship.
You are now on the surface,
where we wished you to be.
With the female
of your choice,
carefully guided lives.
you will now begin
by burying you?
And start
That is your choice.
the planet's surface,
To help you reclaim
our zoological gardens
a variety of plant life.
will furnish
I'll make a deal with you--
Look,
you and your life for the lives
of these two Earth women.
is many times yours,
Since our lifespan
we have time
to evolve you
into a society
trained to serve
as artisans,
technicians--
Do you understand
what I'm saying?
You give me proof that
our ship is all right,
and I'll stay with Vina.
send these two back,
a whole race of humans
It's wrong to create
to live as slaves.
Is this a deception?
to destroy yourselves?
Do you intend
What is that?
The weapon is building up
an overload--
A forced chamber
explosion.
You still have time
to get underground.
Well, go on!
( weapon humming )
And just to show you
how primitive humans
are, Talosian,
you go with her.
If--if you all think
it's this important,
then I can't go, either.
I suppose if they have
one human being,
they might try again.
Wait!
( humming slows )
of storing records
Their method
TALOSIAN:
and consumed much time.
is crude
Are you prepared
to assimilate it?
We had not believed
this possible.
The customs and history
of your race
show a unique hatred
of captivity.
Even when it's pleasant
and benevolent,
you prefer death.
This makes you too violent
and dangerous a species
for our needs.
they can't use you.
He means that
You're free to go
back to the ship.
And that's it?
No apologies?
You captured one of us,
threatened all of us.
has condemned the Talosian race
Your unsuitability
to eventual death.
Is this not sufficient?
has shown your adaptability.
No other specimen
You were our last hope.
But wouldn't some
form of trade,
mutual co-operation...
Your race would learn
our power of illusion
( communicator whistles )
and destroy itself too.
transporter control now.
Captain, we have
Let's get back to the ship.
I can't.
I can't go with you.
We can't shut the power off.
Sir, it just came on.
PITCAIRN:
( communicator whistles )
Mr. Spock here.
TYLER ( over comms ):
All power has come on,
Mr. Spock.
The helm is answering to
control.
( transporter humming )
The captain?
( dramatic theme playing )
I can't go with you?
You see why
This is the female's
true appearance.
in the wreckage
They found me
a lump of flesh.
dying,
They rebuilt me.
Everything works,
never seen a human.
but they had
They had no guide
for putting me back together.
It was necessary
to convince you
her desire to stay
is an honest one.
her illusion of beauty?
You'll give her back
And more.
( melancholy theme playing )
She has an illusion,
and you have reality.
May you find your way
as pleasant.
Mr. Spock, the system is
coming on again.
PITCAIRN:
( transporter humming )
What's happened to Vina?
Isn't she coming with us?
No.
with her reasons.
No, and I agreed
Hold on a minute.
Oh, I feel fine.
Just fine.
100 percent better.
Yeah. You look
You recommended a rest
and change of pace, didn't you?
I've even been home.
Mm-hmm.
Does that make you happy?
Yeoman.
Yes, sir.
I told you that when
I'm on the bridge, I--
Oh.
Oh, yes, the--
the reports.
Thank you.
Sir,
I was wondering,
just curious.
Who would have been Eve?
Yeoman!
You've delivered your report.
Yes, ma'am.
Yes, sir.
Eve, sir?
Eve as in Adam?
As in all ship's doctors
are dirty old men.
What are we running here,
a cadet ship, Number One?
Are we ready or not?
All decks show ready, sir.
Engage.
( dramatic theme playing )
( woman vocalizing )